I'm back! It's been a month or two since I last worked on this. I just quit my
job, which feels good. Doing lots of chores around the house I had been putting
off. Alright, what's next?

One thing I'd like to improve is that the frame rate is basically stuck at 3
fps. I think it's a fine "tick" speed, i.e. nothing in the world goes faster
than 300 ms, but it creates a problem for the UI. It feels clunky as hell to be
moving around with the arrow keys and it doesn't update the UI for another 300
ms.

I think the solution to this would be to decouple the UI rendering (frame rate)
from the tick speed. Not sure how common that is in game development, I think in
a lot of games those are one and the same.

another solution would be to have a fast enough tick speed that would give you a
snappy UI, and just ensure that actions happen no more than once every N ticks
or something that might be simpler actually. it just means tracking cooldowns
for actions.

like, if a person moves on frame 10, they shouldn't be able to move again until
frame 100 (or something).

I actually think this is a decent solution... that would give you sort of an
automatic way of handling different speed. like person A can move one space
every 200 ms, and person B can move once every 150 ms.

Hmm, ok ok. It's easy enough to describe but I think it'll require some...
re-architecting.

Let's say there's a target framerate N. This should be parameterized (and maybe
the user could even toggle between 30 or 60), but for now let's say it's N. The
milliseconds between ticks will be 1000/N, so 30 fps means a tick happens every
33 ms. Cool, fine.

Hrm, this is a tricky problem the more I think about it. Maybe there are some
articles on game clocks that I can read. But basically, do I want an action to
take place after a certain amount of _time_, or a certain number of _ticks_? In
other words, should a person be able to move 1 square per second, or 1 square
per 30 ticks? Ideally these two things should converge, but in reality they're
not the same.

I'm thinking about how "real" games must do it. If the game lags, for example if
there are lots of particles on screen after an explosion, then the whole game
slows down. The game clock is counted in ticks, not milliseconds. The ticks
_approach_ the timing in milliseconds (usually aiming for 30 or 60), and the
tick rate is a cap on game speed, not a bottom.

Then again, there is probably something sophistacted going on with a real world
clock when the fps is not maxed out but also within an acceptable band. Maybe
measuring how fast things are going and firing off events based on a real clock,
like, just because the game is targeting 60 fps and currently running at 30 fps
doesn't mean the character should be moving half speed on screen. But I don't
want to do that decoupled game clock vs real world clock stuff.

Things must get way more complicated synchronizing multiple players over a
network. Egads! But in that case there would definitely have to be a decoupling
between the game UI's refresh rate and its ticks and timers and whatnot.

Anyways my current solution will be:

- Wait 1000/(target fps) milliseconds between ticks.
- Actors will have cooldowns after actions, e.g. Joey can only move one square
  every 1000 ms.
- That cooldown is defined in milliseconds (to preserve timing if the framerate
  changes) but converted to frames. Hm I'm having trouble thinking of what the
  formula should be.

Let's say joey can walk once every 2 seconds, that's 2000 ms per action. The
framerate is 30 fps, which is 1000/30 == 33.3 ms per frame.

So how many frames between actions? `(ms per action)/(ms per frame)`, which is
2000/33.3, or ~60 frames between actions. That makes sense.

Actually a simpler equation would be `(cooldown/1000) * (target framerate)`. An
action which happens once every 1500 ms, and a target framerate of 60, would
be... `1.5 * 60`, which is 90 frames.

Alright I'm happy with that. Good place to start from.

So, how to track cooldowns is something I haven't considered at all in this
framework. Would each actor (e.g. each human, tree, wolf, mushroom) track all of
its own cooldowns? or would there be a central scheduler object which knows the
entire world state of cooldowns?

Probably the first thing, eh? If the world is large and boundless, we can't have
a central store of all that information.

An object would have to know its cooldowns and the last tick it was used on.

```json
{
  "actions": {
    "walk": {
      "cooldown": 1500, // cooldown in ms
      "last_frame": 500 // last tick it was used on
    },
    "eat": {
      "cooldown": 10000, // can only eat once every 10 seconds
      "last_frame": 0 // hasn't eaten
    }
  }
}
```

This isn't extensible though, if there are a large number of action types. There
should be some default cooldowns for a class of thing.
